E2: a framework for NFV applications
====================================


In networking, there is a large set of "non-standard" devices such as firewalls,
WAN optimizers, IDSs, ...

These have become quite common (as many middleboxes as actual routers).

Middleboxes are problematic:

- dedicated and specialized
- fixed-function, little or no programmability
- custom management API

The systems community tried to remove middleboxes, by running them on commodity
servers as software. => Network Function Virtualization (NFV)

Today, NFV are still not elegant. They are monolithic pieces of software,
designed from scratch. They still have custom management APIs.

The goal of this work is to have a framework that coordinates the execution of a
network function, and handles low-level things such as scaling, failure
tolerance, ...

NFs are implemented as "pipelets".

The framework does sizing, placement, routing (i.e., composition of NFs), and
dynamic scaling.


E2 Architecture
---------------

E2 could handle things like:

- all traffic needs to go to an IDS
- unsafe traffic should be logged
- traffic to youtube.com should go through a parental control system
- all safe traffic should go through a traffic shaper

=> A DAG of network functions
   Conditions on edges (things like TCP ports, but also URLs, output of earlier
   NFs)

The E2 manager takes such a graph and configures switch flow tables. All the
network functions are connected to a custom software switch.

The software switch is based on SoftNIC (a Berkeley project). It supports some
general-purpose processing in the switching code.

One addition to the model is the ability for NFs to exchange bytestreams instead
of packets. In addition, they can add metadata to the stream.


E2 Functions
------------

E2 gets as input the pipelets, a description for each NF (how many resources it
needs, what ports it sends data to), and a hardware description.

E2 then performs sizing and placement, with the goal of minimizing total
traffic. Finally, E2 modifies the switch tables to route packets correctly
between NFs.

Routing decides what traffic is sent to NF (depending on virtual ports,
metadata, or header matching), how this traffic is sent (packets or
bytestreams), and to what instance. The last choice depends on affinity (if
instances keep per-flow state, then that flow needs to be sent to the right
instance).
